 
to build a fire by Jack London was

to build a fire by Jack London was
 

to build a fire by Jack London was
originally published in 1908 and is now

originally published in 1908 and is now
 

originally published in 1908 and is now
in the public domain to build a fire my

in the public domain to build a fire my
 

in the public domain to build a fire my
Jack London day had broken cold and gray

Jack London day had broken cold and gray
 

Jack London day had broken cold and gray
exceedingly cold and gray when the man

exceedingly cold and gray when the man
 

exceedingly cold and gray when the man
turned aside from the main Yukon trail

turned aside from the main Yukon trail
 

turned aside from the main Yukon trail
and climbed the high earth bank were a

and climbed the high earth bank were a
 

and climbed the high earth bank were a
dim and little travel trail led eastward

dim and little travel trail led eastward
 

dim and little travel trail led eastward
through the fat spruce Timberland it was

through the fat spruce Timberland it was
 

through the fat spruce Timberland it was
a steep Bank he paused for breath at the

a steep Bank he paused for breath at the
 

a steep Bank he paused for breath at the
top excusing the act to himself by

top excusing the act to himself by
 

top excusing the act to himself by
looking at his watch it was nine o'clock

looking at his watch it was nine o'clock
 

looking at his watch it was nine o'clock
there was no Sun nor a hint of Sun

there was no Sun nor a hint of Sun
 

there was no Sun nor a hint of Sun
though there was not a cloud in the sky

though there was not a cloud in the sky
 

though there was not a cloud in the sky
it was a clear day and yet there seemed

it was a clear day and yet there seemed
 

it was a clear day and yet there seemed
to be an intangible pall over the face

to be an intangible pall over the face
 

to be an intangible pall over the face
of things subtle gloom that made the

of things subtle gloom that made the
 

of things subtle gloom that made the
date dark and that was due to the

date dark and that was due to the
 

date dark and that was due to the
absence of Sun this fact did not worry

absence of Sun this fact did not worry
 

absence of Sun this fact did not worry
the man he was used to the lack of Sun

the man he was used to the lack of Sun
 

the man he was used to the lack of Sun
it had been days since he had seen the

it had been days since he had seen the
 

it had been days since he had seen the
Sun and he knew that a few more days

Sun and he knew that a few more days
 

Sun and he knew that a few more days
must pass before that cheerful orb due

must pass before that cheerful orb due
 

must pass before that cheerful orb due
south would just people of the skyline

south would just people of the skyline
 

south would just people of the skyline
and dip immediately from view the man

and dip immediately from view the man
 

and dip immediately from view the man
flung a look back along the way he had

flung a look back along the way he had
 

flung a look back along the way he had
come the Yukon lay a mile wide and

come the Yukon lay a mile wide and
 

come the Yukon lay a mile wide and
hidden under three feet of ice on top of

hidden under three feet of ice on top of
 

hidden under three feet of ice on top of
this ice were as many feet of snow it

this ice were as many feet of snow it
 

this ice were as many feet of snow it
was all pure white rolling and gentle

was all pure white rolling and gentle
 

was all pure white rolling and gentle
undulations with the ice jams of the

undulations with the ice jams of the
 

undulations with the ice jams of the
freeze up had formed north and south as

freeze up had formed north and south as
 

freeze up had formed north and south as
far as his I could see it was unbroken

far as his I could see it was unbroken
 

far as his I could see it was unbroken
white save for dark hair line that

white save for dark hair line that
 

white save for dark hair line that
curved and twisted from around the

curved and twisted from around the
 

curved and twisted from around the
spruce covered Island to the south and

spruce covered Island to the south and
 

spruce covered Island to the south and
that curved and twisted away into the

that curved and twisted away into the
 

that curved and twisted away into the
north where it disappeared behind

north where it disappeared behind
 

north where it disappeared behind
another spruce covered on this dark

another spruce covered on this dark
 

another spruce covered on this dark
hairline was the trail the main trail

hairline was the trail the main trail
 

hairline was the trail the main trail
that led south 500 miles to the Chilkoot

that led south 500 miles to the Chilkoot
 

that led south 500 miles to the Chilkoot
pass daya and salt water and that led

pass daya and salt water and that led
 

pass daya and salt water and that led
north 70 miles to Dawson and still on to

north 70 miles to Dawson and still on to
 

north 70 miles to Dawson and still on to
the North a thousand miles to you later

the North a thousand miles to you later
 

the North a thousand miles to you later
and finally to st. Michael on Bering Sea

and finally to st. Michael on Bering Sea
 

and finally to st. Michael on Bering Sea
thousand miles and a half a thousand

thousand miles and a half a thousand
 

thousand miles and a half a thousand
more but all this the mysterious

more but all this the mysterious
 

more but all this the mysterious
far-reaching hairline trail the absence

far-reaching hairline trail the absence
 

far-reaching hairline trail the absence
of Sun from the sky the tremendous cold

of Sun from the sky the tremendous cold
 

of Sun from the sky the tremendous cold
and the strangeness and weirdness of it

and the strangeness and weirdness of it
 

and the strangeness and weirdness of it
all no impression on the man it was not

all no impression on the man it was not
 

all no impression on the man it was not
because he was long used to it he was a

because he was long used to it he was a
 

because he was long used to it he was a
newcomer in the land

newcomer in the land
 

newcomer in the land
- aqua and this was his first winter the

- aqua and this was his first winter the
 

- aqua and this was his first winter the
trouble with him was that he was without

trouble with him was that he was without
 

trouble with him was that he was without
imagination he was quick and alert in

imagination he was quick and alert in
 

imagination he was quick and alert in
the things of life but only in the

the things of life but only in the
 

the things of life but only in the
things and not in they significances

things and not in they significances
 

things and not in they significances
fifty degrees below zero meant eighty

fifty degrees below zero meant eighty
 

fifty degrees below zero meant eighty
odd degrees frost such fact impressed

odd degrees frost such fact impressed
 

odd degrees frost such fact impressed
him as being cold and uncomfortable that

him as being cold and uncomfortable that
 

him as being cold and uncomfortable that
was all it did not lead him to meditate

was all it did not lead him to meditate
 

was all it did not lead him to meditate
upon his frailty as a creature of

upon his frailty as a creature of
 

upon his frailty as a creature of
temperature and upon man's frailty in

temperature and upon man's frailty in
 

temperature and upon man's frailty in
general able only to live within certain

general able only to live within certain
 

general able only to live within certain
narrow limits of heat and cold and from

narrow limits of heat and cold and from
 

narrow limits of heat and cold and from
there on it did not lead him to the

there on it did not lead him to the
 

there on it did not lead him to the
conjectural field of immortality and

conjectural field of immortality and
 

conjectural field of immortality and
man's place in the universe fifty

man's place in the universe fifty
 

man's place in the universe fifty
degrees below zero stood for a bite of

degrees below zero stood for a bite of
 

degrees below zero stood for a bite of
frost that hurt and that must be guarded

frost that hurt and that must be guarded
 

frost that hurt and that must be guarded
against by the use of mittens earflaps

against by the use of mittens earflaps
 

against by the use of mittens earflaps
wore moccasins and thick socks fifty

wore moccasins and thick socks fifty
 

wore moccasins and thick socks fifty
below zero was to him just precisely 50

below zero was to him just precisely 50
 

below zero was to him just precisely 50
degrees below zero that there should be

degrees below zero that there should be
 

degrees below zero that there should be
anything more to it than that was a

anything more to it than that was a
 

anything more to it than that was a
thought that never entered its head as

thought that never entered its head as
 

thought that never entered its head as
he turned to go on he spat speculatively

he turned to go on he spat speculatively
 

he turned to go on he spat speculatively
there was a sharp explosive crackle that

there was a sharp explosive crackle that
 

there was a sharp explosive crackle that
startled him he sped again and again in

startled him he sped again and again in
 

startled him he sped again and again in
the air before it could fall to the snow

the air before it could fall to the snow
 

the air before it could fall to the snow
was spittle crackled he knew that at

was spittle crackled he knew that at
 

was spittle crackled he knew that at
50-below spittle crackled honest no but

50-below spittle crackled honest no but
 

50-below spittle crackled honest no but
this Patil I crack 'old in the air

this Patil I crack 'old in the air
 

this Patil I crack 'old in the air
undoubtedly it was colder than fifty

undoubtedly it was colder than fifty
 

undoubtedly it was colder than fifty
blow how much code redid not know but

blow how much code redid not know but
 

blow how much code redid not know but
the temperature did not matter he was

the temperature did not matter he was
 

the temperature did not matter he was
bound for the old claim on the left Fork

bound for the old claim on the left Fork
 

bound for the old claim on the left Fork
of Henderson Creek where the boys were

of Henderson Creek where the boys were
 

of Henderson Creek where the boys were
already they had come over across the

already they had come over across the
 

already they had come over across the
divide from the Indian Creek country

divide from the Indian Creek country
 

divide from the Indian Creek country
while he had come the roundabout way to

while he had come the roundabout way to
 

while he had come the roundabout way to
take a look at the possibilities of

take a look at the possibilities of
 

take a look at the possibilities of
getting out logs in the spring from the

getting out logs in the spring from the
 

getting out logs in the spring from the
islands in the Yukon he would be in camp

islands in the Yukon he would be in camp
 

islands in the Yukon he would be in camp
by six o'clock but after dark it was

by six o'clock but after dark it was
 

by six o'clock but after dark it was
true but the boys would be there a fire

true but the boys would be there a fire
 

true but the boys would be there a fire
would be going and a hot supper would be

would be going and a hot supper would be
 

would be going and a hot supper would be
ready as for lunch he pressed his hand

ready as for lunch he pressed his hand
 

ready as for lunch he pressed his hand
against the protruding bundle under his

against the protruding bundle under his
 

against the protruding bundle under his
jacket it was also under his shirt

jacket it was also under his shirt
 

jacket it was also under his shirt
wrapped up in a handkerchief and lying

wrapped up in a handkerchief and lying
 

wrapped up in a handkerchief and lying
against the naked skin it was the only

against the naked skin it was the only
 

against the naked skin it was the only
way to keep the biscuits from freezing

way to keep the biscuits from freezing
 

way to keep the biscuits from freezing
he smiled agreeably to himself as he

he smiled agreeably to himself as he
 

he smiled agreeably to himself as he
thought of those biscuits eat

thought of those biscuits eat
 

thought of those biscuits eat
got up and soft him baking grease in

got up and soft him baking grease in
 

got up and soft him baking grease in
each enclosing a generous slice of fried

each enclosing a generous slice of fried
 

each enclosing a generous slice of fried
bacon he plunged in among the big spruce

bacon he plunged in among the big spruce
 

bacon he plunged in among the big spruce
trees the trail was faint a foot of snow

trees the trail was faint a foot of snow
 

trees the trail was faint a foot of snow
had fallen since the last sled had

had fallen since the last sled had
 

had fallen since the last sled had
passed over and he was gladden he was

passed over and he was gladden he was
 

passed over and he was gladden he was
without a sled trembling white

without a sled trembling white
 

without a sled trembling white
in fact he carried nothing but the lunch

in fact he carried nothing but the lunch
 

in fact he carried nothing but the lunch
wrapped in aggregate he was surprised

wrapped in aggregate he was surprised
 

wrapped in aggregate he was surprised
however at the cold it certainly was

however at the cold it certainly was
 

however at the cold it certainly was
cold he concluded as he rubbed his numb

cold he concluded as he rubbed his numb
 

cold he concluded as he rubbed his numb
nose and cheek bones with hizmet hand he

nose and cheek bones with hizmet hand he
 

nose and cheek bones with hizmet hand he
was a warm whiskered man but the hair on

was a warm whiskered man but the hair on
 

was a warm whiskered man but the hair on
his face did not protect the high

his face did not protect the high
 

his face did not protect the high
cheekbones and the eager knows that

cheekbones and the eager knows that
 

cheekbones and the eager knows that
flustered self aggressively into the

flustered self aggressively into the
 

flustered self aggressively into the
frosty air at the man's heels trotted a

frosty air at the man's heels trotted a
 

frosty air at the man's heels trotted a
dog big native husky the proper wolf dog

dog big native husky the proper wolf dog
 

dog big native husky the proper wolf dog
gray coated and without any visible or

gray coated and without any visible or
 

gray coated and without any visible or
temperamental difference from its

temperamental difference from its
 

temperamental difference from its
brother the wild wolf the animal was

brother the wild wolf the animal was
 

brother the wild wolf the animal was
depressed by the tremendous coal it knew

depressed by the tremendous coal it knew
 

depressed by the tremendous coal it knew
that it was no time for traveling it's

that it was no time for traveling it's
 

that it was no time for traveling it's
instinct told it a truer tale than was

instinct told it a truer tale than was
 

instinct told it a truer tale than was
told to the man by the man's judgment in

told to the man by the man's judgment in
 

told to the man by the man's judgment in
reality it was not merely colder than 50

reality it was not merely colder than 50
 

reality it was not merely colder than 50
below zero it was colder than 60 below

below zero it was colder than 60 below
 

below zero it was colder than 60 below
than 70 below it was 75 below zero since

than 70 below it was 75 below zero since
 

than 70 below it was 75 below zero since
the freezing point is 32 above zero

the freezing point is 32 above zero
 

the freezing point is 32 above zero
it meant that 107 degrees of frost

it meant that 107 degrees of frost
 

it meant that 107 degrees of frost
obtained the dog did not know anything

obtained the dog did not know anything
 

obtained the dog did not know anything
about thermometers possibly in its brain

about thermometers possibly in its brain
 

about thermometers possibly in its brain
there was no sharp consciousness of a

there was no sharp consciousness of a
 

there was no sharp consciousness of a
condition of very cold such as was in

condition of very cold such as was in
 

condition of very cold such as was in
the man's brain but the brute had

the man's brain but the brute had
 

the man's brain but the brute had
instinct it experienced a vague but

instinct it experienced a vague but
 

instinct it experienced a vague but
menacing apprehension that subdued it

menacing apprehension that subdued it
 

menacing apprehension that subdued it
and made it slink along at the man's

and made it slink along at the man's
 

and made it slink along at the man's
heels and that made it question eagerly

heels and that made it question eagerly
 

heels and that made it question eagerly
every unwanted movement of the man as if

every unwanted movement of the man as if
 

every unwanted movement of the man as if
expecting him to go into camp were to

expecting him to go into camp were to
 

expecting him to go into camp were to
seek shelter somewhere and build a fire

seek shelter somewhere and build a fire
 

seek shelter somewhere and build a fire
the dog had learned fire while at fire

the dog had learned fire while at fire
 

the dog had learned fire while at fire
or else to burrow under the snow and

or else to burrow under the snow and
 

or else to burrow under the snow and
cuddle its warmth away from the air the

cuddle its warmth away from the air the
 

cuddle its warmth away from the air the
frozen moisture of its breathing had

frozen moisture of its breathing had
 

frozen moisture of its breathing had
settled on a spur and a fine powder of

settled on a spur and a fine powder of
 

settled on a spur and a fine powder of
frost and especially words jowls muzzle

frost and especially words jowls muzzle
 

frost and especially words jowls muzzle
and eyelashes whitened by its crystal

and eyelashes whitened by its crystal
 

and eyelashes whitened by its crystal
breath the man's red beard and moustache

breath the man's red beard and moustache
 

breath the man's red beard and moustache
were likewise frosted

were likewise frosted
 

were likewise frosted
but more solidly he deposit-taking the

but more solidly he deposit-taking the
 

but more solidly he deposit-taking the
form of ice and increasing with every

form of ice and increasing with every
 

form of ice and increasing with every
warm moist death he exhaled also the man

warm moist death he exhaled also the man
 

warm moist death he exhaled also the man
was chewing tobacco and the muzzle of

was chewing tobacco and the muzzle of
 

was chewing tobacco and the muzzle of
ice eldest lips so rigidly that he was

ice eldest lips so rigidly that he was
 

ice eldest lips so rigidly that he was
unable to clear his chin when he

unable to clear his chin when he
 

unable to clear his chin when he
expelled the juice the result was that a

expelled the juice the result was that a
 

expelled the juice the result was that a
crystal beard of the colour and solidity

crystal beard of the colour and solidity
 

crystal beard of the colour and solidity
of amber was increasing its length on

of amber was increasing its length on
 

of amber was increasing its length on
his chin if he fell down it would

his chin if he fell down it would
 

his chin if he fell down it would
shatter itself like glass into brittle

shatter itself like glass into brittle
 

shatter itself like glass into brittle
fragments but he did not mind the

fragments but he did not mind the
 

fragments but he did not mind the
appendage it was the penalty all tobacco

appendage it was the penalty all tobacco
 

appendage it was the penalty all tobacco
chewers paid in that country and he had

chewers paid in that country and he had
 

chewers paid in that country and he had
been out in two cold snaps they had not

been out in two cold snaps they had not
 

been out in two cold snaps they had not
been so cold as this new but by the

been so cold as this new but by the
 

been so cold as this new but by the
spirit thermometer at sixty mile he knew

spirit thermometer at sixty mile he knew
 

spirit thermometer at sixty mile he knew
they had been registered at fifty below

they had been registered at fifty below
 

they had been registered at fifty below
and at fifty-five he held on through the

and at fifty-five he held on through the
 

and at fifty-five he held on through the
level stretch of woods for several miles

level stretch of woods for several miles
 

level stretch of woods for several miles
crossed the wild flat of nigger heads

crossed the wild flat of nigger heads
 

crossed the wild flat of nigger heads
and dropped down a bang to the frozen

and dropped down a bang to the frozen
 

and dropped down a bang to the frozen
bed of a small stream this was Henderson

bed of a small stream this was Henderson
 

bed of a small stream this was Henderson
Creek and he knew he was ten miles from

Creek and he knew he was ten miles from
 

Creek and he knew he was ten miles from
the forks he looked at his watch it was

the forks he looked at his watch it was
 

the forks he looked at his watch it was
ten o'clock he was making four miles an

ten o'clock he was making four miles an
 

ten o'clock he was making four miles an
hour he calculated that he would arrive

hour he calculated that he would arrive
 

hour he calculated that he would arrive
at this Forks at half-past twelve he

at this Forks at half-past twelve he
 

at this Forks at half-past twelve he
decided to celebrate that event by

decided to celebrate that event by
 

decided to celebrate that event by
eating slice there the dog dropped in

eating slice there the dog dropped in
 

eating slice there the dog dropped in
again at his heels with a tail drooping

again at his heels with a tail drooping
 

again at his heels with a tail drooping
discouragement as the man swung along a

discouragement as the man swung along a
 

discouragement as the man swung along a
creek bed the furrow of the old sled

creek bed the furrow of the old sled
 

creek bed the furrow of the old sled
trail was plainly visible but a dozen

trail was plainly visible but a dozen
 

trail was plainly visible but a dozen
inches of snow covered the marks of the

inches of snow covered the marks of the
 

inches of snow covered the marks of the
last runners in a month no man had come

last runners in a month no man had come
 

last runners in a month no man had come
up or down that silent Creek man held

up or down that silent Creek man held
 

up or down that silent Creek man held
steadily on he was not much given to

steadily on he was not much given to
 

steadily on he was not much given to
thinking and just then particularly had

thinking and just then particularly had
 

thinking and just then particularly had
nothing to think about save that he

nothing to think about save that he
 

nothing to think about save that he
would eat lunch at the forks and that at

would eat lunch at the forks and that at
 

would eat lunch at the forks and that at
six o'clock he would be in camp with the

six o'clock he would be in camp with the
 

six o'clock he would be in camp with the
boys there was nobody to talk to and had

boys there was nobody to talk to and had
 

boys there was nobody to talk to and had
there been speech would have been

there been speech would have been
 

there been speech would have been
impossible because of the ice muscle on

impossible because of the ice muscle on
 

impossible because of the ice muscle on
his mouth so he continued monotonous ly

his mouth so he continued monotonous ly
 

his mouth so he continued monotonous ly
to chew tobacco and to increase the

to chew tobacco and to increase the
 

to chew tobacco and to increase the
length of his amber beard once in a

length of his amber beard once in a
 

length of his amber beard once in a
while the thought reiterated itself that

while the thought reiterated itself that
 

while the thought reiterated itself that
it was very cold and that he had never

it was very cold and that he had never
 

it was very cold and that he had never
experienced such cold as he walked along

experienced such cold as he walked along
 

experienced such cold as he walked along
he rubbed his cheekbones and nose with

he rubbed his cheekbones and nose with
 

he rubbed his cheekbones and nose with
the back of his mittened

the back of his mittened
 

the back of his mittened
he did this automatically now and again

he did this automatically now and again
 

he did this automatically now and again
changing hands

changing hands
 

changing hands
but Robbie's he would the instant he

but Robbie's he would the instant he
 

but Robbie's he would the instant he
stopped his cheekbones went numb and the

stopped his cheekbones went numb and the
 

stopped his cheekbones went numb and the
following instant the end of his nose

following instant the end of his nose
 

following instant the end of his nose
went numb he was short of frosty cheeks

went numb he was short of frosty cheeks
 

went numb he was short of frosty cheeks
he knew that and experienced a pang of

he knew that and experienced a pang of
 

he knew that and experienced a pang of
regret that he had not devised a no

regret that he had not devised a no
 

regret that he had not devised a no
strap of the sort bud wore cold snaps

strap of the sort bud wore cold snaps
 

strap of the sort bud wore cold snaps
such a strap passed across the cheeks as

such a strap passed across the cheeks as
 

such a strap passed across the cheeks as
well and saved them but it didn't matter

well and saved them but it didn't matter
 

well and saved them but it didn't matter
much after all four were frosted cheeks

much after all four were frosted cheeks
 

much after all four were frosted cheeks
a bit painful that was all they were

a bit painful that was all they were
 

a bit painful that was all they were
never serious empty as the man's mind

never serious empty as the man's mind
 

never serious empty as the man's mind
was of thoughts he was keenly observant

was of thoughts he was keenly observant
 

was of thoughts he was keenly observant
and he noticed the changes in the creek

and he noticed the changes in the creek
 

and he noticed the changes in the creek
the curves and bends and timber jams and

the curves and bends and timber jams and
 

the curves and bends and timber jams and
always he sharply noted where he placed

always he sharply noted where he placed
 

always he sharply noted where he placed
his feet once coming around to bandy

his feet once coming around to bandy
 

his feet once coming around to bandy
shined abruptly like a startled horse

shined abruptly like a startled horse
 

shined abruptly like a startled horse
curved away from the place where he had

curved away from the place where he had
 

curved away from the place where he had
been walking and retweeted several paces

been walking and retweeted several paces
 

been walking and retweeted several paces
back along the trail the creek he knew

back along the trail the creek he knew
 

back along the trail the creek he knew
was frozen clear to the bottom

was frozen clear to the bottom
 

was frozen clear to the bottom
no Creek contained water in that Arctic

no Creek contained water in that Arctic
 

no Creek contained water in that Arctic
winter but he knew also there were

winter but he knew also there were
 

winter but he knew also there were
Springs that bubbled out from the

Springs that bubbled out from the
 

Springs that bubbled out from the
hillsides and ran along under the snow

hillsides and ran along under the snow
 

hillsides and ran along under the snow
and on top of the ice of the creek he

and on top of the ice of the creek he
 

and on top of the ice of the creek he
knew that the coldest snaps never froze

knew that the coldest snaps never froze
 

knew that the coldest snaps never froze
these springs and he knew likewise their

these springs and he knew likewise their
 

these springs and he knew likewise their
danger they were traps they had pools of

danger they were traps they had pools of
 

danger they were traps they had pools of
water under the snow that might be three

water under the snow that might be three
 

water under the snow that might be three
inches deep or three feet sometimes the

inches deep or three feet sometimes the
 

inches deep or three feet sometimes the
skin of ice half an inch thick covered

skin of ice half an inch thick covered
 

skin of ice half an inch thick covered
them and in turn was covered by the snow

them and in turn was covered by the snow
 

them and in turn was covered by the snow
sometimes there were alternate layers of

sometimes there were alternate layers of
 

sometimes there were alternate layers of
water and I skin so that when one broke

water and I skin so that when one broke
 

water and I skin so that when one broke
through he kept on breaking through for

through he kept on breaking through for
 

through he kept on breaking through for
a while sometimes wetting himself to the

a while sometimes wetting himself to the
 

a while sometimes wetting himself to the
waist that was why he shied away in such

waist that was why he shied away in such
 

waist that was why he shied away in such
panic he had felt the give on receipt

panic he had felt the give on receipt
 

panic he had felt the give on receipt
and heard the crackle of a snow hid nice

and heard the crackle of a snow hid nice
 

and heard the crackle of a snow hid nice
skin and who could East feet wet in such

skin and who could East feet wet in such
 

skin and who could East feet wet in such
a temperature meant trouble danger at

a temperature meant trouble danger at
 

a temperature meant trouble danger at
the very least it meant delay for he

the very least it meant delay for he
 

the very least it meant delay for he
would be forced to stop and build a fire

would be forced to stop and build a fire
 

would be forced to stop and build a fire
and under his protection to bear his

and under his protection to bear his
 

and under his protection to bear his
feet while he tried to socks and

feet while he tried to socks and
 

feet while he tried to socks and
moccasins he stood and studied the creek

moccasins he stood and studied the creek
 

moccasins he stood and studied the creek
bed and its banks and decided that the

bed and its banks and decided that the
 

bed and its banks and decided that the
flow of water came from the right he

flow of water came from the right he
 

flow of water came from the right he
reflected awhile rubbing his nose and

reflected awhile rubbing his nose and
 

reflected awhile rubbing his nose and
cheeks then skirted to the left

cheeks then skirted to the left
 

cheeks then skirted to the left
generally and testing the footing for

generally and testing the footing for
 

generally and testing the footing for
each step once clear of the danger he

each step once clear of the danger he
 

each step once clear of the danger he
took a fresh joy of tobacco and swung

took a fresh joy of tobacco and swung
 

took a fresh joy of tobacco and swung
along at his four mile gate in the

along at his four mile gate in the
 

along at his four mile gate in the
course of the next two hours he came

course of the next two hours he came
 

course of the next two hours he came
upon several similar traps usually the

upon several similar traps usually the
 

upon several similar traps usually the
snow above the hidden pools had a sunken

snow above the hidden pools had a sunken
 

snow above the hidden pools had a sunken
Candida parent that advertised the

Candida parent that advertised the
 

Candida parent that advertised the
danger once again however hit a close

danger once again however hit a close
 

danger once again however hit a close
call and once suspecting danger he

call and once suspecting danger he
 

call and once suspecting danger he
compelled the dog to go on in front the

compelled the dog to go on in front the
 

compelled the dog to go on in front the
dog did not want to go it hung back

dog did not want to go it hung back
 

dog did not want to go it hung back
until the man shoved it forward and then

until the man shoved it forward and then
 

until the man shoved it forward and then
it went quickly across the white

it went quickly across the white
 

it went quickly across the white
unbroken surface someday it broke

unbroken surface someday it broke
 

unbroken surface someday it broke
through foundering one side got away to

through foundering one side got away to
 

through foundering one side got away to
firmer footing it had wet its four feet

firmer footing it had wet its four feet
 

firmer footing it had wet its four feet
and legs and almost immediately the

and legs and almost immediately the
 

and legs and almost immediately the
water they clung to it turned to ice it

water they clung to it turned to ice it
 

water they clung to it turned to ice it
made quick efforts to lick the ice off

made quick efforts to lick the ice off
 

made quick efforts to lick the ice off
its legs then dropped down in the snow

its legs then dropped down in the snow
 

its legs then dropped down in the snow
and began to bite out the ice that had

and began to bite out the ice that had
 

and began to bite out the ice that had
formed between its toes this was a

formed between its toes this was a
 

formed between its toes this was a
matter of instinct to permit the ice to

matter of instinct to permit the ice to
 

matter of instinct to permit the ice to
remain would mean sore feet it did not

remain would mean sore feet it did not
 

remain would mean sore feet it did not
know this it merely obeyed the

know this it merely obeyed the
 

know this it merely obeyed the
mysterious prompting that arose from the

mysterious prompting that arose from the
 

mysterious prompting that arose from the
deep crypts of its being but the man

deep crypts of its being but the man
 

deep crypts of its being but the man
knew having achieved a judgment on this

knew having achieved a judgment on this
 

knew having achieved a judgment on this
subject and he removed the mitten from

subject and he removed the mitten from
 

subject and he removed the mitten from
his right hand and helped tear out the

his right hand and helped tear out the
 

his right hand and helped tear out the
ice particles he did not expose his

ice particles he did not expose his
 

ice particles he did not expose his
fingers more than a minute

fingers more than a minute
 

fingers more than a minute
was astonished at the Swift numbness

was astonished at the Swift numbness
 

was astonished at the Swift numbness
that slowed them Circa was cold he

that slowed them Circa was cold he
 

that slowed them Circa was cold he
pulled on the mitten hastily and to beat

pulled on the mitten hastily and to beat
 

pulled on the mitten hastily and to beat
the hand savagely across his chest at 12

the hand savagely across his chest at 12
 

the hand savagely across his chest at 12
o'clock the day was at its brightest yet

o'clock the day was at its brightest yet
 

o'clock the day was at its brightest yet
the Sun was too far south on its

the Sun was too far south on its
 

the Sun was too far south on its
wintered journey to clear the horizon

wintered journey to clear the horizon
 

wintered journey to clear the horizon
the Bulge of the earth intervened

the Bulge of the earth intervened
 

the Bulge of the earth intervened
between it and the Henderson Creek the

between it and the Henderson Creek the
 

between it and the Henderson Creek the
man walked under a clear sky no cast no

man walked under a clear sky no cast no
 

man walked under a clear sky no cast no
shadow at half-past twelve in a minute

shadow at half-past twelve in a minute
 

shadow at half-past twelve in a minute
he arrived at the forks of the creek he

he arrived at the forks of the creek he
 

he arrived at the forks of the creek he
was pleased at the speed he made he kept

was pleased at the speed he made he kept
 

was pleased at the speed he made he kept
it up he would certainly be with the

it up he would certainly be with the
 

it up he would certainly be with the
boys by 6:00 y unbuttoned his jacket and

boys by 6:00 y unbuttoned his jacket and
 

boys by 6:00 y unbuttoned his jacket and
shirt and roof with his lunch the action

shirt and roof with his lunch the action
 

shirt and roof with his lunch the action
consumed no more than a quarter of a

consumed no more than a quarter of a
 

consumed no more than a quarter of a
minute yet in that brief moment the

minute yet in that brief moment the
 

minute yet in that brief moment the
numbness laid hold of the exposed

numbness laid hold of the exposed
 

numbness laid hold of the exposed
fingers

fingers
 

fingers
he did not put the mitten on but instead

he did not put the mitten on but instead
 

he did not put the mitten on but instead
struck the fingers a dozen sharp smashes

struck the fingers a dozen sharp smashes
 

struck the fingers a dozen sharp smashes
against his leg then he sat down on the

against his leg then he sat down on the
 

against his leg then he sat down on the
snow-covered log to eat the sting that

snow-covered log to eat the sting that
 

snow-covered log to eat the sting that
followed upon the striking of his

followed upon the striking of his
 

followed upon the striking of his
fingers against his legs ceased so

fingers against his legs ceased so
 

fingers against his legs ceased so
quickly he was startled he had had no

quickly he was startled he had had no
 

quickly he was startled he had had no
chance to take a bite of the biscuit he

chance to take a bite of the biscuit he
 

chance to take a bite of the biscuit he
struck the fingers repeatedly returned

struck the fingers repeatedly returned
 

struck the fingers repeatedly returned
them to the mitten bearing the other

them to the mitten bearing the other
 

them to the mitten bearing the other
hand for the purpose of eating he tried

hand for the purpose of eating he tried
 

hand for the purpose of eating he tried
to take a mouthful but the ice muscle

to take a mouthful but the ice muscle
 

to take a mouthful but the ice muscle
prevented it forgotten to build a fire

prevented it forgotten to build a fire
 

prevented it forgotten to build a fire
and thaw out he chuckled at his

and thaw out he chuckled at his
 

and thaw out he chuckled at his
foolishness and as he chuckled he noted

foolishness and as he chuckled he noted
 

foolishness and as he chuckled he noted
the numbness creeping into the exposed

the numbness creeping into the exposed
 

the numbness creeping into the exposed
fingers also he noted that the stinging

fingers also he noted that the stinging
 

fingers also he noted that the stinging
which had first come to his toes when he

which had first come to his toes when he
 

which had first come to his toes when he
sat down was already passing away he

sat down was already passing away he
 

sat down was already passing away he
wondered whether the toes were warm or

wondered whether the toes were warm or
 

wondered whether the toes were warm or
numb he moved them inside the moccasins

numb he moved them inside the moccasins
 

numb he moved them inside the moccasins
and decided they were numb he pulled the

and decided they were numb he pulled the
 

and decided they were numb he pulled the
mid naan hurriedly and stood up he was a

mid naan hurriedly and stood up he was a
 

mid naan hurriedly and stood up he was a
bit frightened he stomped up and down

bit frightened he stomped up and down
 

bit frightened he stomped up and down
until the stinging returned into the

until the stinging returned into the
 

until the stinging returned into the
feet certainly was cold was his thought

feet certainly was cold was his thought
 

feet certainly was cold was his thought
that man from sulphur Creek had spoken

that man from sulphur Creek had spoken
 

that man from sulphur Creek had spoken
the truth when telling how cold it

the truth when telling how cold it
 

the truth when telling how cold it
sometimes got in the country and he had

sometimes got in the country and he had
 

sometimes got in the country and he had
laughed at him at the time that showed

laughed at him at the time that showed
 

laughed at him at the time that showed
one must not be too sure of things there

one must not be too sure of things there
 

one must not be too sure of things there
was no mistake about it it was cold he

was no mistake about it it was cold he
 

was no mistake about it it was cold he
strode up and down stomping his feet and

strode up and down stomping his feet and
 

strode up and down stomping his feet and
thrashing his arms until reassured by

thrashing his arms until reassured by
 

thrashing his arms until reassured by
the returning warmth then he got out

the returning warmth then he got out
 

the returning warmth then he got out
matches and proceeded to make a fire

matches and proceeded to make a fire
 

matches and proceeded to make a fire
from the undergrowth where a high water

from the undergrowth where a high water
 

from the undergrowth where a high water
of the previous spring had lodged the

of the previous spring had lodged the
 

of the previous spring had lodged the
supply of seasoned twigs he got his

supply of seasoned twigs he got his
 

supply of seasoned twigs he got his
firewood working carefully from a small

firewood working carefully from a small
 

firewood working carefully from a small
beginning he soon had a roaring fire

beginning he soon had a roaring fire
 

beginning he soon had a roaring fire
over which he thought the ice from his

over which he thought the ice from his
 

over which he thought the ice from his
face and in the protection of which he

face and in the protection of which he
 

face and in the protection of which he
ate his biscuits for the moment the cold

ate his biscuits for the moment the cold
 

ate his biscuits for the moment the cold
of space was outwitted the dog took

of space was outwitted the dog took
 

of space was outwitted the dog took
satisfaction in the fires stretching out

satisfaction in the fires stretching out
 

satisfaction in the fires stretching out
closing up for warmth and far enough

closing up for warmth and far enough
 

closing up for warmth and far enough
away to escape being singed when the man

away to escape being singed when the man
 

away to escape being singed when the man
had finished he filled his pipe took his

had finished he filled his pipe took his
 

had finished he filled his pipe took his
comfortable time over a smoke then he

comfortable time over a smoke then he
 

comfortable time over a smoke then he
pulled on his mittens settled the air

pulled on his mittens settled the air
 

pulled on his mittens settled the air
flaps of his cap firmly about his ears

flaps of his cap firmly about his ears
 

flaps of his cap firmly about his ears
and took the creek trail up the left

and took the creek trail up the left
 

and took the creek trail up the left
fork the dog was disappointed and

fork the dog was disappointed and
 

fork the dog was disappointed and
yearned back forth fire this man did not

yearned back forth fire this man did not
 

yearned back forth fire this man did not
know coal

know coal
 

know coal
possibly all the generations of his

possibly all the generations of his
 

possibly all the generations of his
ancestry had been ate ignorant of cold

ancestry had been ate ignorant of cold
 

ancestry had been ate ignorant of cold
ryuko of cold 107 degrees below freezing

ryuko of cold 107 degrees below freezing
 

ryuko of cold 107 degrees below freezing
point but the dog know all its ancestry

point but the dog know all its ancestry
 

point but the dog know all its ancestry
knew and it had inherited the knowledge

knew and it had inherited the knowledge
 

knew and it had inherited the knowledge
and it knew that it was not good to walk

and it knew that it was not good to walk
 

and it knew that it was not good to walk
abroad in such fearful cold it was the

abroad in such fearful cold it was the
 

abroad in such fearful cold it was the
time to lie snug in a hole in the snow

time to lie snug in a hole in the snow
 

time to lie snug in a hole in the snow
and wait for a curtain of cloud to be

and wait for a curtain of cloud to be
 

and wait for a curtain of cloud to be
drawn across the face of outer space

drawn across the face of outer space
 

drawn across the face of outer space
whence this cold cane on the other hand

whence this cold cane on the other hand
 

whence this cold cane on the other hand
there was no keen intimacy between the

there was no keen intimacy between the
 

there was no keen intimacy between the
dog and the man the one was the toil

dog and the man the one was the toil
 

dog and the man the one was the toil
slave of the other and the only caresses

slave of the other and the only caresses
 

slave of the other and the only caresses
it had ever received were the caresses

it had ever received were the caresses
 

it had ever received were the caresses
of the whiplash and a harsh and menacing

of the whiplash and a harsh and menacing
 

of the whiplash and a harsh and menacing
throat sounds that threatened the

throat sounds that threatened the
 

throat sounds that threatened the
whiplash so the dog made no effort to

whiplash so the dog made no effort to
 

whiplash so the dog made no effort to
communicate its apprehension to the man

communicate its apprehension to the man
 

communicate its apprehension to the man
it was not concerned in the welfare of

it was not concerned in the welfare of
 

it was not concerned in the welfare of
the man it was for its own sake that it

the man it was for its own sake that it
 

the man it was for its own sake that it
yearned back toward the fire but the man

yearned back toward the fire but the man
 

yearned back toward the fire but the man
whistled spoke to it with the sound of

whistled spoke to it with the sound of
 

whistled spoke to it with the sound of
whiplashes

whiplashes
 

whiplashes
a dog swung in at the man's heels and

a dog swung in at the man's heels and
 

a dog swung in at the man's heels and
followed after man took a chew of

followed after man took a chew of
 

followed after man took a chew of
tobacco and proceeded to start a new

tobacco and proceeded to start a new
 

tobacco and proceeded to start a new
amber beard also his moist breath

amber beard also his moist breath
 

amber beard also his moist breath
quickly powdered with white his mustache

quickly powdered with white his mustache
 

quickly powdered with white his mustache
eyebrows and lashes there did not seem

eyebrows and lashes there did not seem
 

eyebrows and lashes there did not seem
to be so many Springs on the left Fork

to be so many Springs on the left Fork
 

to be so many Springs on the left Fork
of the Henderson and for half an hour

of the Henderson and for half an hour
 

of the Henderson and for half an hour
the man saw no signs of any and it

the man saw no signs of any and it
 

the man saw no signs of any and it
happened at a place where there were no

happened at a place where there were no
 

happened at a place where there were no
signs where the soft unbroken snow

signs where the soft unbroken snow
 

signs where the soft unbroken snow
seemed to advertise solidity beneath the

seemed to advertise solidity beneath the
 

seemed to advertise solidity beneath the
man broke through not deep he wet

man broke through not deep he wet
 

man broke through not deep he wet
himself halfway to the knees before he

himself halfway to the knees before he
 

himself halfway to the knees before he
floundered out to the firm crust he was

floundered out to the firm crust he was
 

floundered out to the firm crust he was
angry and cursed his luck allowed he had

angry and cursed his luck allowed he had
 

angry and cursed his luck allowed he had
hoped to get into camp with the boys at

hoped to get into camp with the boys at
 

hoped to get into camp with the boys at
six o'clock and this would delay him an

six o'clock and this would delay him an
 

six o'clock and this would delay him an
hour for he would have to build a fire

hour for he would have to build a fire
 

hour for he would have to build a fire
and dry out his foot gear this was

and dry out his foot gear this was
 

and dry out his foot gear this was
imperative at that low temperature

imperative at that low temperature
 

imperative at that low temperature
he knew that much and he turned aside to

he knew that much and he turned aside to
 

he knew that much and he turned aside to
the bank which he'd climbed on top

the bank which he'd climbed on top
 

the bank which he'd climbed on top
tangled in the underbrush about the

tangled in the underbrush about the
 

tangled in the underbrush about the
trunks of several small spoofs trees was

trunks of several small spoofs trees was
 

trunks of several small spoofs trees was
a high-water deposit of dry firewood

a high-water deposit of dry firewood
 

a high-water deposit of dry firewood
sticks and twigs principally but also

sticks and twigs principally but also
 

sticks and twigs principally but also
larger portions of

larger portions of
 

larger portions of
and branches find dry last year's

and branches find dry last year's
 

and branches find dry last year's
grasses you threw down several large

grasses you threw down several large
 

grasses you threw down several large
pieces on top of the snow the served for

pieces on top of the snow the served for
 

pieces on top of the snow the served for
our foundation and prevented the young

our foundation and prevented the young
 

our foundation and prevented the young
flame from drowning itself in the snow

flame from drowning itself in the snow
 

flame from drowning itself in the snow
that otherwise would melt for flame he

that otherwise would melt for flame he
 

that otherwise would melt for flame he
got by touching a match to a small shred

got by touching a match to a small shred
 

got by touching a match to a small shred
of birch bark that he took from his

of birch bark that he took from his
 

of birch bark that he took from his
pocket

pocket
 

pocket
this burned even more readily than paper

this burned even more readily than paper
 

this burned even more readily than paper
placing it on the foundation he fed the

placing it on the foundation he fed the
 

placing it on the foundation he fed the
young flame with wisps of dry grass and

young flame with wisps of dry grass and
 

young flame with wisps of dry grass and
with the tiniest dry twigs he worked

with the tiniest dry twigs he worked
 

with the tiniest dry twigs he worked
very slowly and carefully keenly aware

very slowly and carefully keenly aware
 

very slowly and carefully keenly aware
of his danger gradually as the flame

of his danger gradually as the flame
 

of his danger gradually as the flame
grew stronger he increased the size of

grew stronger he increased the size of
 

grew stronger he increased the size of
the twigs with which he fit it he

the twigs with which he fit it he
 

the twigs with which he fit it he
squatted in the snow pulling the twigs

squatted in the snow pulling the twigs
 

squatted in the snow pulling the twigs
out from their entanglement in the brush

out from their entanglement in the brush
 

out from their entanglement in the brush
and feeding directly to the flame he

and feeding directly to the flame he
 

and feeding directly to the flame he
knew there must be no failure when it is

knew there must be no failure when it is
 

knew there must be no failure when it is
75 below zero a man must not fail in his

75 below zero a man must not fail in his
 

75 below zero a man must not fail in his
first attempt to build a fire that is if

first attempt to build a fire that is if
 

first attempt to build a fire that is if
his feet are wet if his feet are dry and

his feet are wet if his feet are dry and
 

his feet are wet if his feet are dry and
he fails he can run along the trail for

he fails he can run along the trail for
 

he fails he can run along the trail for
half a mile and restore circulation but

half a mile and restore circulation but
 

half a mile and restore circulation but
the circulation of wet and freezing feet

the circulation of wet and freezing feet
 

the circulation of wet and freezing feet
cannot be restored by running but it's

cannot be restored by running but it's
 

cannot be restored by running but it's
75 below no matter how fast he runs the

75 below no matter how fast he runs the
 

75 below no matter how fast he runs the
wet feet will freeze the harder all this

wet feet will freeze the harder all this
 

wet feet will freeze the harder all this
the man knew the old-timer on sulphur

the man knew the old-timer on sulphur
 

the man knew the old-timer on sulphur
Creek had told him about the previous

Creek had told him about the previous
 

Creek had told him about the previous
fall and now he was appreciating the

fall and now he was appreciating the
 

fall and now he was appreciating the
advice already all sensation had gone

advice already all sensation had gone
 

advice already all sensation had gone
out of his feet to build the fire he had

out of his feet to build the fire he had
 

out of his feet to build the fire he had
been forced to remove his mittens and

been forced to remove his mittens and
 

been forced to remove his mittens and
the fingers had quickly gone numb his

the fingers had quickly gone numb his
 

the fingers had quickly gone numb his
pace of four miles an hour had kept the

pace of four miles an hour had kept the
 

pace of four miles an hour had kept the
heart pumping blood to the surface of

heart pumping blood to the surface of
 

heart pumping blood to the surface of
his body and all the extremities but the

his body and all the extremities but the
 

his body and all the extremities but the
instant he stopped the action of the

instant he stopped the action of the
 

instant he stopped the action of the
pump ease down the cold of space smote

pump ease down the cold of space smote
 

pump ease down the cold of space smote
the unprotected tip of the planet and he

the unprotected tip of the planet and he
 

the unprotected tip of the planet and he
being on that unprotected tip received

being on that unprotected tip received
 

being on that unprotected tip received
the full force of the blow the blood of

the full force of the blow the blood of
 

the full force of the blow the blood of
his body recoiled before it blood was

his body recoiled before it blood was
 

his body recoiled before it blood was
alive like the dog and like the dog and

alive like the dog and like the dog and
 

alive like the dog and like the dog and
wanted to hide away and cover itself up

wanted to hide away and cover itself up
 

wanted to hide away and cover itself up
from the fearful cold so long as he

from the fearful cold so long as he
 

from the fearful cold so long as he
walked four miles an hour he pumped that

walked four miles an hour he pumped that
 

walked four miles an hour he pumped that
blood willy-nilly to the surface but now

blood willy-nilly to the surface but now
 

blood willy-nilly to the surface but now
it have dawei sank down into the

it have dawei sank down into the
 

it have dawei sank down into the
recesses of his body

recesses of his body
 

recesses of his body
the extremities were the first to feel

the extremities were the first to feel
 

the extremities were the first to feel
its absence his wet feet froze the

its absence his wet feet froze the
 

its absence his wet feet froze the
faster and his exposed fingers numbed

faster and his exposed fingers numbed
 

faster and his exposed fingers numbed
the faster though they had not yet begun

the faster though they had not yet begun
 

the faster though they had not yet begun
to freeze nose and cheeks were already

to freeze nose and cheeks were already
 

to freeze nose and cheeks were already
freezing while the skin of all his body

freezing while the skin of all his body
 

freezing while the skin of all his body
chilled as it lost its blood but he was

chilled as it lost its blood but he was
 

chilled as it lost its blood but he was
safe toes and nose and cheeks would be

safe toes and nose and cheeks would be
 

safe toes and nose and cheeks would be
only touched by the frost for the fire

only touched by the frost for the fire
 

only touched by the frost for the fire
was beginning to burn with strength he

was beginning to burn with strength he
 

was beginning to burn with strength he
was feeding with twigs the size of his

was feeding with twigs the size of his
 

was feeding with twigs the size of his
finger in another minute he would be

finger in another minute he would be
 

finger in another minute he would be
able to feed it with branches the size

able to feed it with branches the size
 

able to feed it with branches the size
of his wrist and then he could remove

of his wrist and then he could remove
 

of his wrist and then he could remove
his wet foot gear and while it dried he

his wet foot gear and while it dried he
 

his wet foot gear and while it dried he
could keep his naked feet warm by the

could keep his naked feet warm by the
 

could keep his naked feet warm by the
fire rubbing them at first of course

fire rubbing them at first of course
 

fire rubbing them at first of course
with snow the fire was a success he was

with snow the fire was a success he was
 

with snow the fire was a success he was
safe he remembered the advice of the

safe he remembered the advice of the
 

safe he remembered the advice of the
old-timer on sulphur Creek and smiled

old-timer on sulphur Creek and smiled
 

old-timer on sulphur Creek and smiled
the old-timer had been very serious and

the old-timer had been very serious and
 

the old-timer had been very serious and
laying down the law that no man must

laying down the law that no man must
 

laying down the law that no man must
travel alone in the Klondike after 50

travel alone in the Klondike after 50
 

travel alone in the Klondike after 50
below well here he was he had had the

below well here he was he had had the
 

below well here he was he had had the
accident he was alone and he had saved

accident he was alone and he had saved
 

accident he was alone and he had saved
himself those old-timers were rather

himself those old-timers were rather
 

himself those old-timers were rather
womanish some of them he thought all a

womanish some of them he thought all a
 

womanish some of them he thought all a
man had to do was to keep his head and

man had to do was to keep his head and
 

man had to do was to keep his head and
he was all right any man who was a man

he was all right any man who was a man
 

he was all right any man who was a man
could travel alone but it was surprising

could travel alone but it was surprising
 

could travel alone but it was surprising
the rapidity with which his cheeks and

the rapidity with which his cheeks and
 

the rapidity with which his cheeks and
nose were freezing and he had not

nose were freezing and he had not
 

nose were freezing and he had not
thought his fingers could go lifeless in

thought his fingers could go lifeless in
 

thought his fingers could go lifeless in
so short a time

so short a time
 

so short a time
lifeless they were for he could scarcely

lifeless they were for he could scarcely
 

lifeless they were for he could scarcely
make them move together to grip a twig

make them move together to grip a twig
 

make them move together to grip a twig
and they seemed remote from his body and

and they seemed remote from his body and
 

and they seemed remote from his body and
from him when he touched a twig he had

from him when he touched a twig he had
 

from him when he touched a twig he had
to look and see whether or not he had

to look and see whether or not he had
 

to look and see whether or not he had
hold of it the wires were pretty well

hold of it the wires were pretty well
 

hold of it the wires were pretty well
down between him and his finger-ends all

down between him and his finger-ends all
 

down between him and his finger-ends all
of which counted for little there was

of which counted for little there was
 

of which counted for little there was
the fire snapping and crackling and

the fire snapping and crackling and
 

the fire snapping and crackling and
promising life with every dancing flame

promising life with every dancing flame
 

promising life with every dancing flame
he started to untie his moccasins

he started to untie his moccasins
 

he started to untie his moccasins
they were coated with ice the thick

they were coated with ice the thick
 

they were coated with ice the thick
German socks were like sheath of iron

German socks were like sheath of iron
 

German socks were like sheath of iron
halfway to the knees and at moccasin

halfway to the knees and at moccasin
 

halfway to the knees and at moccasin
strings were like rods of Steel all

strings were like rods of Steel all
 

strings were like rods of Steel all
twisted and knotted as if by some

twisted and knotted as if by some
 

twisted and knotted as if by some
conflagration for a moment he tugged

conflagration for a moment he tugged
 

conflagration for a moment he tugged
with his numb fingers then realizing the

with his numb fingers then realizing the
 

with his numb fingers then realizing the
folly

folly
 

folly
but he drew a sheath knife but before he

but he drew a sheath knife but before he
 

but he drew a sheath knife but before he
could cut the strings it happened it was

could cut the strings it happened it was
 

could cut the strings it happened it was
his own fault or rather his mistake he

his own fault or rather his mistake he
 

his own fault or rather his mistake he
should not have built a fire under the

should not have built a fire under the
 

should not have built a fire under the
spruce tree he should have built it in

spruce tree he should have built it in
 

spruce tree he should have built it in
the open but it had been easier to pull

the open but it had been easier to pull
 

the open but it had been easier to pull
the twigs from the brush and drop them

the twigs from the brush and drop them
 

the twigs from the brush and drop them
directly on the fire now the tree under

directly on the fire now the tree under
 

directly on the fire now the tree under
which he had done this carried a weight

which he had done this carried a weight
 

which he had done this carried a weight
of snow on its boughs no wind had blown

of snow on its boughs no wind had blown
 

of snow on its boughs no wind had blown
four weeks in each bow was fully rated

four weeks in each bow was fully rated
 

four weeks in each bow was fully rated
each time he pulled a twig he had

each time he pulled a twig he had
 

each time he pulled a twig he had
communicated a slight agitation to the

communicated a slight agitation to the
 

communicated a slight agitation to the
tree an imperceptible agitation so far

tree an imperceptible agitation so far
 

tree an imperceptible agitation so far
as he was concerned but an agitation

as he was concerned but an agitation
 

as he was concerned but an agitation
sufficient to bring about the disaster

sufficient to bring about the disaster
 

sufficient to bring about the disaster
high up in the tree one Val capsized its

high up in the tree one Val capsized its
 

high up in the tree one Val capsized its
load of snow this fell on the boughs

load of snow this fell on the boughs
 

load of snow this fell on the boughs
beneath capsizing them this process

beneath capsizing them this process
 

beneath capsizing them this process
continued spreading out in involving the

continued spreading out in involving the
 

continued spreading out in involving the
whole tree it grew like an avalanche and

whole tree it grew like an avalanche and
 

whole tree it grew like an avalanche and
it descended without warning upon the

it descended without warning upon the
 

it descended without warning upon the
man and the fire the fire was blotted

man and the fire the fire was blotted
 

man and the fire the fire was blotted
out where it had burned was a mantle of

out where it had burned was a mantle of
 

out where it had burned was a mantle of
fresh and disordered snow man was

fresh and disordered snow man was
 

fresh and disordered snow man was
shocked it was though he had just heard

shocked it was though he had just heard
 

shocked it was though he had just heard
his own sentence of death for a moment

his own sentence of death for a moment
 

his own sentence of death for a moment
he sat and stared at the spot where the

he sat and stared at the spot where the
 

he sat and stared at the spot where the
fire had been then he grew very calm

fire had been then he grew very calm
 

fire had been then he grew very calm
perhaps the old-timer on sulphur Creek

perhaps the old-timer on sulphur Creek
 

perhaps the old-timer on sulphur Creek
was right if he had only had a trail

was right if he had only had a trail
 

was right if he had only had a trail
mate he would have been in no danger now

mate he would have been in no danger now
 

mate he would have been in no danger now
the trail mate could have built the fire

the trail mate could have built the fire
 

the trail mate could have built the fire
well it was up to him to build the fire

well it was up to him to build the fire
 

well it was up to him to build the fire
over again and this second time there

over again and this second time there
 

over again and this second time there
must be no failure even if he succeeded

must be no failure even if he succeeded
 

must be no failure even if he succeeded
he would most likely lose some toes his

he would most likely lose some toes his
 

he would most likely lose some toes his
feet must be badly frozen by now and

feet must be badly frozen by now and
 

feet must be badly frozen by now and
there would be some time before the

there would be some time before the
 

there would be some time before the
second fire was ready such were his

second fire was ready such were his
 

second fire was ready such were his
thoughts but he did not sit and think

thoughts but he did not sit and think
 

thoughts but he did not sit and think
them he was busy all the time they were

them he was busy all the time they were
 

them he was busy all the time they were
passing through his mind he made a new

passing through his mind he made a new
 

passing through his mind he made a new
foundation for a fire this time in the

foundation for a fire this time in the
 

foundation for a fire this time in the
open where no treacherous Creek had

open where no treacherous Creek had
 

open where no treacherous Creek had
blotted out next he gathered dry grasses

blotted out next he gathered dry grasses
 

blotted out next he gathered dry grasses
and tiny twigs from the high water float

and tiny twigs from the high water float
 

and tiny twigs from the high water float
'some he could not bring his fingers

'some he could not bring his fingers
 

'some he could not bring his fingers
together to pull them out but

together to pull them out but
 

together to pull them out but
was able to gather them by the handful

was able to gather them by the handful
 

was able to gather them by the handful
in this way he got many rotten twigs and

in this way he got many rotten twigs and
 

in this way he got many rotten twigs and
bits of green moss that were undesirable

bits of green moss that were undesirable
 

bits of green moss that were undesirable
but it was the best he could do he

but it was the best he could do he
 

but it was the best he could do he
worked methodically even collecting an

worked methodically even collecting an
 

worked methodically even collecting an
armful of the larger branches to be used

armful of the larger branches to be used
 

armful of the larger branches to be used
later when the fire gathered strength

later when the fire gathered strength
 

later when the fire gathered strength
and all the while the dog sat and

and all the while the dog sat and
 

and all the while the dog sat and
watched him certain yearning wistfulness

watched him certain yearning wistfulness
 

watched him certain yearning wistfulness
in its eyes for it looked upon him as

in its eyes for it looked upon him as
 

in its eyes for it looked upon him as
the fire provider and the fire was slow

the fire provider and the fire was slow
 

the fire provider and the fire was slow
in coming when all was ready the man

in coming when all was ready the man
 

in coming when all was ready the man
reached in his pocket for a second piece

reached in his pocket for a second piece
 

reached in his pocket for a second piece
of birch bark he knew the bark was there

of birch bark he knew the bark was there
 

of birch bark he knew the bark was there
and though he could not feel it with his

and though he could not feel it with his
 

and though he could not feel it with his
numb fingers he could hear its crisp

numb fingers he could hear its crisp
 

numb fingers he could hear its crisp
rustling as he fumbled for it try as he

rustling as he fumbled for it try as he
 

rustling as he fumbled for it try as he
would he could not clutch hold of it and

would he could not clutch hold of it and
 

would he could not clutch hold of it and
all the time in his consciousness was

all the time in his consciousness was
 

all the time in his consciousness was
the knowledge that each instant his feet

the knowledge that each instant his feet
 

the knowledge that each instant his feet
were freezing this thought tended to put

were freezing this thought tended to put
 

were freezing this thought tended to put
him in a panic but he fought against it

him in a panic but he fought against it
 

him in a panic but he fought against it
in kept calm he pulled on his mittens

in kept calm he pulled on his mittens
 

in kept calm he pulled on his mittens
with his teeth and thrashed his arms

with his teeth and thrashed his arms
 

with his teeth and thrashed his arms
back and forth beating his hands with

back and forth beating his hands with
 

back and forth beating his hands with
all his might against his side's he did

all his might against his side's he did
 

all his might against his side's he did
this sitting down and he stood up to do

this sitting down and he stood up to do
 

this sitting down and he stood up to do
it and all the while the dog said in the

it and all the while the dog said in the
 

it and all the while the dog said in the
snow its wolf brush of a tail curled

snow its wolf brush of a tail curled
 

snow its wolf brush of a tail curled
around warmly over its four feet sharp

around warmly over its four feet sharp
 

around warmly over its four feet sharp
wolf ears pricked forward intently as it

wolf ears pricked forward intently as it
 

wolf ears pricked forward intently as it
watched the man and the man as he beat

watched the man and the man as he beat
 

watched the man and the man as he beat
and thrashed with his arms and hands

and thrashed with his arms and hands
 

and thrashed with his arms and hands
felt a great surge of Envy as he

felt a great surge of Envy as he
 

felt a great surge of Envy as he
regarded the creature that was warm and

regarded the creature that was warm and
 

regarded the creature that was warm and
secure and its natural covering after a

secure and its natural covering after a
 

secure and its natural covering after a
time he was aware of the first far-away

time he was aware of the first far-away
 

time he was aware of the first far-away
signals of sensation menace beaten

signals of sensation menace beaten
 

signals of sensation menace beaten
fingers the faint tingling grew stronger

fingers the faint tingling grew stronger
 

fingers the faint tingling grew stronger
till it evolved into a stinging ache

till it evolved into a stinging ache
 

till it evolved into a stinging ache
that was excruciating but which the man

that was excruciating but which the man
 

that was excruciating but which the man
hailed with satisfaction he stripped the

hailed with satisfaction he stripped the
 

hailed with satisfaction he stripped the
mitten from his right hand and fetched

mitten from his right hand and fetched
 

mitten from his right hand and fetched
forth the birch bark the exposed fingers

forth the birch bark the exposed fingers
 

forth the birch bark the exposed fingers
were quickly going numb again next he

were quickly going numb again next he
 

were quickly going numb again next he
brought out his bunch of sulphur matches

brought out his bunch of sulphur matches
 

brought out his bunch of sulphur matches
but their tremendous cold had already

but their tremendous cold had already
 

but their tremendous cold had already
driven the life out of his fingers in

driven the life out of his fingers in
 

driven the life out of his fingers in
his efforts to separate one match from

his efforts to separate one match from
 

his efforts to separate one match from
the others the whole bunch fell in the

the others the whole bunch fell in the
 

the others the whole bunch fell in the
snow he tried to pick it out of the snow

snow he tried to pick it out of the snow
 

snow he tried to pick it out of the snow
but failed the dead fingers could

but failed the dead fingers could
 

but failed the dead fingers could
neither touch nor clutch

neither touch nor clutch
 

neither touch nor clutch
he was very careful he drove the thought

he was very careful he drove the thought
 

he was very careful he drove the thought
of his freezing feet and nose and cheeks

of his freezing feet and nose and cheeks
 

of his freezing feet and nose and cheeks
out of his mind

out of his mind
 

out of his mind
devoting his whole soul to the matches

devoting his whole soul to the matches
 

devoting his whole soul to the matches
he watched using the sense of vision in

he watched using the sense of vision in
 

he watched using the sense of vision in
place of that of touch and when he saw

place of that of touch and when he saw
 

place of that of touch and when he saw
his fingers on each side of the bunch he

his fingers on each side of the bunch he
 

his fingers on each side of the bunch he
closed them that is he willed to close

closed them that is he willed to close
 

closed them that is he willed to close
them for the wires were down the fingers

them for the wires were down the fingers
 

them for the wires were down the fingers
did not obey he pulled the mitten on his

did not obey he pulled the mitten on his
 

did not obey he pulled the mitten on his
right hand had beat it fiercely against

right hand had beat it fiercely against
 

right hand had beat it fiercely against
his knee then with both mitten hands he

his knee then with both mitten hands he
 

his knee then with both mitten hands he
scooped a bunch of matches along with

scooped a bunch of matches along with
 

scooped a bunch of matches along with
much snow into his lap yet he was no

much snow into his lap yet he was no
 

much snow into his lap yet he was no
better off after some manipulation he

better off after some manipulation he
 

better off after some manipulation he
managed to get the bunch between the

managed to get the bunch between the
 

managed to get the bunch between the
heels of his mittened hands in this

heels of his mittened hands in this
 

heels of his mittened hands in this
fashion he carried it to his mouth the

fashion he carried it to his mouth the
 

fashion he carried it to his mouth the
ice crackled and snapped when by a

ice crackled and snapped when by a
 

ice crackled and snapped when by a
violent effort he opened his mouth he

violent effort he opened his mouth he
 

violent effort he opened his mouth he
drew the lower jaw in curled the upper

drew the lower jaw in curled the upper
 

drew the lower jaw in curled the upper
lip out of the way and scratched the

lip out of the way and scratched the
 

lip out of the way and scratched the
bunch with his upper teeth in order to

bunch with his upper teeth in order to
 

bunch with his upper teeth in order to
separate a match he succeeded in getting

separate a match he succeeded in getting
 

separate a match he succeeded in getting
one which he dropped on his lap he was

one which he dropped on his lap he was
 

one which he dropped on his lap he was
no better off he could not pick it up

no better off he could not pick it up
 

no better off he could not pick it up
then he devised the way he picked it up

then he devised the way he picked it up
 

then he devised the way he picked it up
in his teeth and scratched it on his leg

in his teeth and scratched it on his leg
 

in his teeth and scratched it on his leg
20 times he scratched before he

20 times he scratched before he
 

20 times he scratched before he
succeeded in lighting it as it flamed he

succeeded in lighting it as it flamed he
 

succeeded in lighting it as it flamed he
held it with his teeth to the birch bark

held it with his teeth to the birch bark
 

held it with his teeth to the birch bark
but the burning brimstone went up his

but the burning brimstone went up his
 

but the burning brimstone went up his
nostrils and into his lungs causing him

nostrils and into his lungs causing him
 

nostrils and into his lungs causing him
to cough spasmodically the match fell

to cough spasmodically the match fell
 

to cough spasmodically the match fell
and into the snow and went out the

and into the snow and went out the
 

and into the snow and went out the
old-timer on sulphur Creek was right he

old-timer on sulphur Creek was right he
 

old-timer on sulphur Creek was right he
thought in the moment of controlled

thought in the moment of controlled
 

thought in the moment of controlled
despair that ensued after 50 below a man

despair that ensued after 50 below a man
 

despair that ensued after 50 below a man
should travel with a partner he beat his

should travel with a partner he beat his
 

should travel with a partner he beat his
hands and failed and exciting any

hands and failed and exciting any
 

hands and failed and exciting any
sensation suddenly he bared both hands

sensation suddenly he bared both hands
 

sensation suddenly he bared both hands
removing the mittens with his teeth he

removing the mittens with his teeth he
 

removing the mittens with his teeth he
caught the whole bunch between the heels

caught the whole bunch between the heels
 

caught the whole bunch between the heels
of his hands his arm muscles not being

of his hands his arm muscles not being
 

of his hands his arm muscles not being
frozen enabled him to press the hand

frozen enabled him to press the hand
 

frozen enabled him to press the hand
heels together against the Masters then

heels together against the Masters then
 

heels together against the Masters then
he scratched the bunch along his leg it

he scratched the bunch along his leg it
 

he scratched the bunch along his leg it
flared into flame 70 sulphur matches at

flared into flame 70 sulphur matches at
 

flared into flame 70 sulphur matches at
once

once
 

once
there was no wind to blow them out he

there was no wind to blow them out he
 

there was no wind to blow them out he
kept his head to one side to escape the

kept his head to one side to escape the
 

kept his head to one side to escape the
strangling fumes and held the blazing

strangling fumes and held the blazing
 

strangling fumes and held the blazing
bunch to the birch bark as he so held it

bunch to the birch bark as he so held it
 

bunch to the birch bark as he so held it
he became aware of sensation in his hand

he became aware of sensation in his hand
 

he became aware of sensation in his hand
as flesh was burning he could smell it

as flesh was burning he could smell it
 

as flesh was burning he could smell it
deep down below the surface he could

deep down below the surface he could
 

deep down below the surface he could
feel it the sensation developed into

feel it the sensation developed into
 

feel it the sensation developed into
pain that grew acute and still he

pain that grew acute and still he
 

pain that grew acute and still he
endured it holding the flame of the

endured it holding the flame of the
 

endured it holding the flame of the
matches clumsily to the bark that would

matches clumsily to the bark that would
 

matches clumsily to the bark that would
not like readily because his own burning

not like readily because his own burning
 

not like readily because his own burning
hands were in the way absorbing most of

hands were in the way absorbing most of
 

hands were in the way absorbing most of
the flame at last when he could endure

the flame at last when he could endure
 

the flame at last when he could endure
no more he jerked his hands apart the

no more he jerked his hands apart the
 

no more he jerked his hands apart the
blazing matches fell sizzling into the

blazing matches fell sizzling into the
 

blazing matches fell sizzling into the
snow but the birch bark was alight he

snow but the birch bark was alight he
 

snow but the birch bark was alight he
began laying dry grasses and the tiniest

began laying dry grasses and the tiniest
 

began laying dry grasses and the tiniest
twigs on the flame he could not pick and

twigs on the flame he could not pick and
 

twigs on the flame he could not pick and
choose for he had to lift the fuel

choose for he had to lift the fuel
 

choose for he had to lift the fuel
between the heels of his hands small

between the heels of his hands small
 

between the heels of his hands small
pieces of rotten wood and green moss

pieces of rotten wood and green moss
 

pieces of rotten wood and green moss
clung to the twigs and he bit them off

clung to the twigs and he bit them off
 

clung to the twigs and he bit them off
as well as he could with his teeth he

as well as he could with his teeth he
 

as well as he could with his teeth he
cherished the flame carefully and

cherished the flame carefully and
 

cherished the flame carefully and
awkwardly it been life and it must not

awkwardly it been life and it must not
 

awkwardly it been life and it must not
perish the withdrawal of blood from the

perish the withdrawal of blood from the
 

perish the withdrawal of blood from the
surface of his body now made him begin

surface of his body now made him begin
 

surface of his body now made him begin
to shiver and he grew more awkward a

to shiver and he grew more awkward a
 

to shiver and he grew more awkward a
large piece of green moss fell squarely

large piece of green moss fell squarely
 

large piece of green moss fell squarely
on the little fire he tried to poke it

on the little fire he tried to poke it
 

on the little fire he tried to poke it
up with these fingers but his shivering

up with these fingers but his shivering
 

up with these fingers but his shivering
frame made him poke too far and he

frame made him poke too far and he
 

frame made him poke too far and he
disrupted the nucleus of the little

disrupted the nucleus of the little
 

disrupted the nucleus of the little
flyer the burning grasses and tiny twigs

flyer the burning grasses and tiny twigs
 

flyer the burning grasses and tiny twigs
separating and scattering he tried to

separating and scattering he tried to
 

separating and scattering he tried to
poke them together again but in spite of

poke them together again but in spite of
 

poke them together again but in spite of
the tenseness of the effort his

the tenseness of the effort his
 

the tenseness of the effort his
shivering got away with him and the

shivering got away with him and the
 

shivering got away with him and the
twigs were hopelessly scattered each

twigs were hopelessly scattered each
 

twigs were hopelessly scattered each
twig gushed a puff of smoke and went out

twig gushed a puff of smoke and went out
 

twig gushed a puff of smoke and went out
the fire provider had failed as he

the fire provider had failed as he
 

the fire provider had failed as he
looked pathetic ly about him his eyes

looked pathetic ly about him his eyes
 

looked pathetic ly about him his eyes
chanced on a dog sitting across the

chanced on a dog sitting across the
 

chanced on a dog sitting across the
ruins of the fire from him in the snow

ruins of the fire from him in the snow
 

ruins of the fire from him in the snow
making Restless hunting movements

making Restless hunting movements
 

making Restless hunting movements
slightly lifting one forefoot than the

slightly lifting one forefoot than the
 

slightly lifting one forefoot than the
other

other
 

other
shifting its weight back and forth on

shifting its weight back and forth on
 

shifting its weight back and forth on
them with wistful eagerness the sight of

them with wistful eagerness the sight of
 

them with wistful eagerness the sight of
the dog put a wild idea in his head he

the dog put a wild idea in his head he
 

the dog put a wild idea in his head he
remembered the tale of a man caught in a

remembered the tale of a man caught in a
 

remembered the tale of a man caught in a
blizzard who killed a steer and crawled

blizzard who killed a steer and crawled
 

blizzard who killed a steer and crawled
inside the carcass and so

inside the carcass and so
 

inside the carcass and so
saved his life he would kill the dog and

saved his life he would kill the dog and
 

saved his life he would kill the dog and
bury his hands in the warm body til the

bury his hands in the warm body til the
 

bury his hands in the warm body til the
numbness went out of them then he could

numbness went out of them then he could
 

numbness went out of them then he could
build another fire he spoke to the dog

build another fire he spoke to the dog
 

build another fire he spoke to the dog
calling it to him but in his voice was a

calling it to him but in his voice was a
 

calling it to him but in his voice was a
strange note of fear that frightened the

strange note of fear that frightened the
 

strange note of fear that frightened the
animal who had never known the man to

animal who had never known the man to
 

animal who had never known the man to
speak in such a way before something

speak in such a way before something
 

speak in such a way before something
with the matter and its suspicious

with the matter and its suspicious
 

with the matter and its suspicious
nature sensed danger it knew not what

nature sensed danger it knew not what
 

nature sensed danger it knew not what
danger but somewhere somehow in its

danger but somewhere somehow in its
 

danger but somewhere somehow in its
brain arose an apprehension of the man

brain arose an apprehension of the man
 

brain arose an apprehension of the man
it flattened its ears down at the sound

it flattened its ears down at the sound
 

it flattened its ears down at the sound
of the man's voice and its Restless

of the man's voice and its Restless
 

of the man's voice and its Restless
hunching movements and its lifting the

hunching movements and its lifting the
 

hunching movements and its lifting the
shiftings of its fore feet became more

shiftings of its fore feet became more
 

shiftings of its fore feet became more
pronounced but it would not come to the

pronounced but it would not come to the
 

pronounced but it would not come to the
man he got on his hands and knees and

man he got on his hands and knees and
 

man he got on his hands and knees and
crawled toward the dog this unusual

crawled toward the dog this unusual
 

crawled toward the dog this unusual
posture again excited suspicion and the

posture again excited suspicion and the
 

posture again excited suspicion and the
animals sidled menacingly away the man

animals sidled menacingly away the man
 

animals sidled menacingly away the man
sat up in the snow for a moment and

sat up in the snow for a moment and
 

sat up in the snow for a moment and
struggled for calmness then he pulled on

struggled for calmness then he pulled on
 

struggled for calmness then he pulled on
his mittens by means of his teeth and

his mittens by means of his teeth and
 

his mittens by means of his teeth and
got upon his feet

got upon his feet
 

got upon his feet
he glanced down at first in order to

he glanced down at first in order to
 

he glanced down at first in order to
assure himself that he was really

assure himself that he was really
 

assure himself that he was really
standing up for the absence of sensation

standing up for the absence of sensation
 

standing up for the absence of sensation
a feet left him unrelated to the earth

a feet left him unrelated to the earth
 

a feet left him unrelated to the earth
his erect position in itself started to

his erect position in itself started to
 

his erect position in itself started to
drive the webs of suspicion from the

drive the webs of suspicion from the
 

drive the webs of suspicion from the
dog's mind and when he spoke

dog's mind and when he spoke
 

dog's mind and when he spoke
peremptorily with the sound of whip

peremptorily with the sound of whip
 

peremptorily with the sound of whip
lashes in his voice the dog rendered its

lashes in his voice the dog rendered its
 

lashes in his voice the dog rendered its
customary allegiance and came to him as

customary allegiance and came to him as
 

customary allegiance and came to him as
it came within reaching distance the man

it came within reaching distance the man
 

it came within reaching distance the man
lost his control his arms flashed out to

lost his control his arms flashed out to
 

lost his control his arms flashed out to
the dog and he experienced genuine

the dog and he experienced genuine
 

the dog and he experienced genuine
surprise when he discovered that his

surprise when he discovered that his
 

surprise when he discovered that his
hands could not clutch that there was

hands could not clutch that there was
 

hands could not clutch that there was
neither bended nor feeling in the

neither bended nor feeling in the
 

neither bended nor feeling in the
fingers he had forgotten for the moment

fingers he had forgotten for the moment
 

fingers he had forgotten for the moment
that they were frozen and that they were

that they were frozen and that they were
 

that they were frozen and that they were
freezing more and more all this happened

freezing more and more all this happened
 

freezing more and more all this happened
quickly and before the animal could get

quickly and before the animal could get
 

quickly and before the animal could get
away he encircled its body with his arms

away he encircled its body with his arms
 

away he encircled its body with his arms
he sat down in the snow and in this

he sat down in the snow and in this
 

he sat down in the snow and in this
fashion held the dog while it snarled

fashion held the dog while it snarled
 

fashion held the dog while it snarled
and whined and struggled but it was all

and whined and struggled but it was all
 

and whined and struggled but it was all
he could do hold its body encircled in

he could do hold its body encircled in
 

he could do hold its body encircled in
his arms and sit there he realized that

his arms and sit there he realized that
 

his arms and sit there he realized that
he could not kill the dog there was no

he could not kill the dog there was no
 

he could not kill the dog there was no
way to do it with his helpless hands he

way to do it with his helpless hands he
 

way to do it with his helpless hands he
could neither draw nor hold his ceased

could neither draw nor hold his ceased
 

could neither draw nor hold his ceased
knife nor throttle the animal he

knife nor throttle the animal he
 

knife nor throttle the animal he
released it in a plunged wildly away

released it in a plunged wildly away
 

released it in a plunged wildly away
with tail between its legs and still

with tail between its legs and still
 

with tail between its legs and still
snarling it halted 40 feet away and

snarling it halted 40 feet away and
 

snarling it halted 40 feet away and
surveyed him curiously with ears sharply

surveyed him curiously with ears sharply
 

surveyed him curiously with ears sharply
pricked forward the man looked down at

pricked forward the man looked down at
 

pricked forward the man looked down at
his hands in order to locate them found

his hands in order to locate them found
 

his hands in order to locate them found
them hanging on the ends of his arms it

them hanging on the ends of his arms it
 

them hanging on the ends of his arms it
struck him as curious that one should

struck him as curious that one should
 

struck him as curious that one should
have to use his eyes in order to find

have to use his eyes in order to find
 

have to use his eyes in order to find
out where his hands were he began

out where his hands were he began
 

out where his hands were he began
threshing his arms back and forth

threshing his arms back and forth
 

threshing his arms back and forth
beating the mittened hands against his

beating the mittened hands against his
 

beating the mittened hands against his
side's he did this for five minutes

side's he did this for five minutes
 

side's he did this for five minutes
violently and his heart pumped enough

violently and his heart pumped enough
 

violently and his heart pumped enough
blood to the surface to put a stop to

blood to the surface to put a stop to
 

blood to the surface to put a stop to
his shivering but no sensation was

his shivering but no sensation was
 

his shivering but no sensation was
aroused in the hands he had an

aroused in the hands he had an
 

aroused in the hands he had an
impression that they hung like weights

impression that they hung like weights
 

impression that they hung like weights
on the ends of his arms but when he

on the ends of his arms but when he
 

on the ends of his arms but when he
tried to run the impression down he

tried to run the impression down he
 

tried to run the impression down he
could not find it a certain fear of

could not find it a certain fear of
 

could not find it a certain fear of
death dull and oppressive came to him

death dull and oppressive came to him
 

death dull and oppressive came to him
this fear quickly became poignant as he

this fear quickly became poignant as he
 

this fear quickly became poignant as he
realized that it was no longer a mere

realized that it was no longer a mere
 

realized that it was no longer a mere
matter of freezing his fingers and toes

matter of freezing his fingers and toes
 

matter of freezing his fingers and toes
or of losing his hands and feet but that

or of losing his hands and feet but that
 

or of losing his hands and feet but that
it was a matter of life and death with

it was a matter of life and death with
 

it was a matter of life and death with
the chances against him this threw him

the chances against him this threw him
 

the chances against him this threw him
into a panic and he turned and ran up

into a panic and he turned and ran up
 

into a panic and he turned and ran up
the old creek bed along the old dim

the old creek bed along the old dim
 

the old creek bed along the old dim
trail the dog joined in behind and kept

trail the dog joined in behind and kept
 

trail the dog joined in behind and kept
up with him he ran blindly without

up with him he ran blindly without
 

up with him he ran blindly without
intention and fears such as he had never

intention and fears such as he had never
 

intention and fears such as he had never
known in his life slowly as he ploughed

known in his life slowly as he ploughed
 

known in his life slowly as he ploughed
and floundered through the snow he began

and floundered through the snow he began
 

and floundered through the snow he began
to see things again the banks of the

to see things again the banks of the
 

to see things again the banks of the
creek the old timber jams the leafless

creek the old timber jams the leafless
 

creek the old timber jams the leafless
Aspen's and the sky the running made him

Aspen's and the sky the running made him
 

Aspen's and the sky the running made him
feel better

feel better
 

feel better
he did not shiver maybe if he ran on his

he did not shiver maybe if he ran on his
 

he did not shiver maybe if he ran on his
feet would thaw and anyway if he ran far

feet would thaw and anyway if he ran far
 

feet would thaw and anyway if he ran far
enough he would reach the camp and the

enough he would reach the camp and the
 

enough he would reach the camp and the
boys without doubt he would lose some

boys without doubt he would lose some
 

boys without doubt he would lose some
fingers and toes and some of his face

fingers and toes and some of his face
 

fingers and toes and some of his face
but the boys would take care of him and

but the boys would take care of him and
 

but the boys would take care of him and
save the rest of him when he got there

save the rest of him when he got there
 

save the rest of him when he got there
and at the same time there was another

and at the same time there was another
 

and at the same time there was another
thought in his mind that he would never

thought in his mind that he would never
 

thought in his mind that he would never
get to the camp and the boys

get to the camp and the boys
 

get to the camp and the boys
that it was too many miles away that the

that it was too many miles away that the
 

that it was too many miles away that the
freezing had too great a start on him

freezing had too great a start on him
 

freezing had too great a start on him
and that he would soon be stiffened dead

and that he would soon be stiffened dead
 

and that he would soon be stiffened dead
this thought he kept in the background

this thought he kept in the background
 

this thought he kept in the background
and refused to consider sometimes it

and refused to consider sometimes it
 

and refused to consider sometimes it
pushed itself forward and demanded to be

pushed itself forward and demanded to be
 

pushed itself forward and demanded to be
heard but he thrust it back strove to

heard but he thrust it back strove to
 

heard but he thrust it back strove to
think of other things it struck him as

think of other things it struck him as
 

think of other things it struck him as
curious that he could run at all on feet

curious that he could run at all on feet
 

curious that he could run at all on feet
so frozen that he could not feel them

so frozen that he could not feel them
 

so frozen that he could not feel them
when they struck the earth and took the

when they struck the earth and took the
 

when they struck the earth and took the
weight of his body he seemed to himself

weight of his body he seemed to himself
 

weight of his body he seemed to himself
to skim above the surface and to have no

to skim above the surface and to have no
 

to skim above the surface and to have no
connection with the earth somewhere he

connection with the earth somewhere he
 

connection with the earth somewhere he
had seen a winged mercury and he

had seen a winged mercury and he
 

had seen a winged mercury and he
wondered if mercury felt as he felt was

wondered if mercury felt as he felt was
 

wondered if mercury felt as he felt was
skimming over the earth his theory of

skimming over the earth his theory of
 

skimming over the earth his theory of
running until he reached camp and the

running until he reached camp and the
 

running until he reached camp and the
boys had one flaw in it he lacked the

boys had one flaw in it he lacked the
 

boys had one flaw in it he lacked the
endurance several times he stumbled and

endurance several times he stumbled and
 

endurance several times he stumbled and
finally he tottered crumpled up and fell

finally he tottered crumpled up and fell
 

finally he tottered crumpled up and fell
when he tried to rise he failed he must

when he tried to rise he failed he must
 

when he tried to rise he failed he must
sit and rest he decided and next time he

sit and rest he decided and next time he
 

sit and rest he decided and next time he
wouldn't merely walk keep on going as he

wouldn't merely walk keep on going as he
 

wouldn't merely walk keep on going as he
sat a regained his breath he noted that

sat a regained his breath he noted that
 

sat a regained his breath he noted that
he was feeling quite warm and

he was feeling quite warm and
 

he was feeling quite warm and
comfortable he was not shivering and it

comfortable he was not shivering and it
 

comfortable he was not shivering and it
even seemed that a warm glow had come to

even seemed that a warm glow had come to
 

even seemed that a warm glow had come to
his chest and trunk and yet when he

his chest and trunk and yet when he
 

his chest and trunk and yet when he
touched his nose or cheeks

touched his nose or cheeks
 

touched his nose or cheeks
there was no sensation running would not

there was no sensation running would not
 

there was no sensation running would not
thaw them out nor would have thought his

thaw them out nor would have thought his
 

thaw them out nor would have thought his
hands and feet then the thought came to

hands and feet then the thought came to
 

hands and feet then the thought came to
him that the frozen portions of his body

him that the frozen portions of his body
 

him that the frozen portions of his body
must be extending he tried to keep this

must be extending he tried to keep this
 

must be extending he tried to keep this
thought down to forget it to think of

thought down to forget it to think of
 

thought down to forget it to think of
something else he was aware of the

something else he was aware of the
 

something else he was aware of the
panicky feeling that it caused and he

panicky feeling that it caused and he
 

panicky feeling that it caused and he
was afraid of the panic but the thought

was afraid of the panic but the thought
 

was afraid of the panic but the thought
asserted itself and persisted until it

asserted itself and persisted until it
 

asserted itself and persisted until it
produced a vision of his body totally

produced a vision of his body totally
 

produced a vision of his body totally
frozen this was too much and he made

frozen this was too much and he made
 

frozen this was too much and he made
another wild run along the trail once he

another wild run along the trail once he
 

another wild run along the trail once he
slowed down to a walk but the thought of

slowed down to a walk but the thought of
 

slowed down to a walk but the thought of
the freezing extending itself made him

the freezing extending itself made him
 

the freezing extending itself made him
run again and all the time the dog ran

run again and all the time the dog ran
 

run again and all the time the dog ran
with him at his heels when he fell down

with him at his heels when he fell down
 

with him at his heels when he fell down
a second time it curled its tail over

a second time it curled its tail over
 

a second time it curled its tail over
its four feet and

its four feet and
 

its four feet and
sat in front of him facing him curiously

sat in front of him facing him curiously
 

sat in front of him facing him curiously
eager and intent the warmth and security

eager and intent the warmth and security
 

eager and intent the warmth and security
of the animal angered him and he cursed

of the animal angered him and he cursed
 

of the animal angered him and he cursed
it to look flattened down its ears

it to look flattened down its ears
 

it to look flattened down its ears
appeasingly this time the Shivering came

appeasingly this time the Shivering came
 

appeasingly this time the Shivering came
more quickly upon the man he was losing

more quickly upon the man he was losing
 

more quickly upon the man he was losing
in his battle with the frost it was

in his battle with the frost it was
 

in his battle with the frost it was
creeping into his body from all signs

creeping into his body from all signs
 

creeping into his body from all signs
the thought of it drove him on but he

the thought of it drove him on but he
 

the thought of it drove him on but he
ran no more than a hundred feet when he

ran no more than a hundred feet when he
 

ran no more than a hundred feet when he
staggered and pitched headlong it was

staggered and pitched headlong it was
 

staggered and pitched headlong it was
his last panic when he had recovered his

his last panic when he had recovered his
 

his last panic when he had recovered his
breath and control he sat up and

breath and control he sat up and
 

breath and control he sat up and
entertained in his mind a conception of

entertained in his mind a conception of
 

entertained in his mind a conception of
meeting death with dignity however the

meeting death with dignity however the
 

meeting death with dignity however the
conception did not come to him in such

conception did not come to him in such
 

conception did not come to him in such
terms his idea of it was that he had

terms his idea of it was that he had
 

terms his idea of it was that he had
been making a fool of himself running

been making a fool of himself running
 

been making a fool of himself running
around like a chicken with its head cut

around like a chicken with its head cut
 

around like a chicken with its head cut
off

off
 

off
such was the simile that occurred to him

such was the simile that occurred to him
 

such was the simile that occurred to him
well he was bound to freeze anyway and

well he was bound to freeze anyway and
 

well he was bound to freeze anyway and
he might as well take it decently with

he might as well take it decently with
 

he might as well take it decently with
this newfound peace of mind came the

this newfound peace of mind came the
 

this newfound peace of mind came the
first glimmerings of drowsiness a good

first glimmerings of drowsiness a good
 

first glimmerings of drowsiness a good
idea you thought to sleep off to death

idea you thought to sleep off to death
 

idea you thought to sleep off to death
it was like taking an anaesthetic

it was like taking an anaesthetic
 

it was like taking an anaesthetic
freezing was not so bad as people

freezing was not so bad as people
 

freezing was not so bad as people
thought there were lots worse ways to

thought there were lots worse ways to
 

thought there were lots worse ways to
die he pictured the boys finding his

die he pictured the boys finding his
 

die he pictured the boys finding his
body next day suddenly found himself

body next day suddenly found himself
 

body next day suddenly found himself
with them coming along the trail than

with them coming along the trail than
 

with them coming along the trail than
looking for himself and still with them

looking for himself and still with them
 

looking for himself and still with them
he came around a turn in the trail found

he came around a turn in the trail found
 

he came around a turn in the trail found
himself lying in the snow he did not

himself lying in the snow he did not
 

himself lying in the snow he did not
belong with himself anymore for even

belong with himself anymore for even
 

belong with himself anymore for even
then he was out of himself standing with

then he was out of himself standing with
 

then he was out of himself standing with
the boys and looking at himself the snow

the boys and looking at himself the snow
 

the boys and looking at himself the snow
certainly was cold was his thought when

certainly was cold was his thought when
 

certainly was cold was his thought when
he got back to the states he could tell

he got back to the states he could tell
 

he got back to the states he could tell
the folks what real cold was he drifted

the folks what real cold was he drifted
 

the folks what real cold was he drifted
on from this to a vision of the

on from this to a vision of the
 

on from this to a vision of the
old-timer on sulphur Creek he could seem

old-timer on sulphur Creek he could seem
 

old-timer on sulphur Creek he could seem
quite clearly warm and comfortable

quite clearly warm and comfortable
 

quite clearly warm and comfortable
smoking a pipe

smoking a pipe
 

smoking a pipe
you were right ojas you were right the

you were right ojas you were right the
 

you were right ojas you were right the
man mumbled to the old-timer of sulphur

man mumbled to the old-timer of sulphur
 

man mumbled to the old-timer of sulphur
Creek

Creek
 

Creek
then the man browsed off into what

then the man browsed off into what
 

then the man browsed off into what
seemed to him the most comfortable

seemed to him the most comfortable
 

seemed to him the most comfortable
satisfying sleep he had ever known dog

satisfying sleep he had ever known dog
 

satisfying sleep he had ever known dog
sat facing him and waiting the brief day

sat facing him and waiting the brief day
 

sat facing him and waiting the brief day
drew to a close in a long slow Twilight

drew to a close in a long slow Twilight
 

drew to a close in a long slow Twilight
there were no signs of a fire to be made

there were no signs of a fire to be made
 

there were no signs of a fire to be made
besides never in the dogs experience it

besides never in the dogs experience it
 

besides never in the dogs experience it
had known a man to sit like that in the

had known a man to sit like that in the
 

had known a man to sit like that in the
snow make no fire as the Twilight drew

snow make no fire as the Twilight drew
 

snow make no fire as the Twilight drew
on its eager yearning for the fire

on its eager yearning for the fire
 

on its eager yearning for the fire
mastered it and with a great lifting and

mastered it and with a great lifting and
 

mastered it and with a great lifting and
shifting of four feet it whined softly

shifting of four feet it whined softly
 

shifting of four feet it whined softly
and flattened its ears down in

and flattened its ears down in
 

and flattened its ears down in
anticipation of being hidden by the man

anticipation of being hidden by the man
 

anticipation of being hidden by the man
but the man remained silent later the

but the man remained silent later the
 

but the man remained silent later the
dog whines loudly and still later it

dog whines loudly and still later it
 

dog whines loudly and still later it
crept close to the man and caught the

crept close to the man and caught the
 

crept close to the man and caught the
scent of death this made the animal

scent of death this made the animal
 

scent of death this made the animal
bristle on back away a little longer it

bristle on back away a little longer it
 

bristle on back away a little longer it
delayed howling under the stars that

delayed howling under the stars that
 

delayed howling under the stars that
leaped and danced and shone brightly in

leaped and danced and shone brightly in
 

leaped and danced and shone brightly in
the cold sky then it turned and trotted

the cold sky then it turned and trotted
 

the cold sky then it turned and trotted
up the trail in this direction of the

up the trail in this direction of the
 

up the trail in this direction of the
camp it knew where were the other food

camp it knew where were the other food
 

camp it knew where were the other food
providers and fire providers end of to

providers and fire providers end of to
 

providers and fire providers end of to
build a fire
